Welcome back.
I have another tricky question for you and if you were able to get this you've pretty much mastered
hoisting.
It's a really difficult question that comes up quite often in JavaScript interviews looking at this
function.
I've created a few things while we have my favorite food grapes obviously but then I changed my mind
and I have a few thoughts.
Function in this food thought function is a function expression where I log my original favorite food
and then I change my favorite food to sushi and then I console log my new favorite food and then online
11.
We're going to execute and run the food thoughts function before I click run here.
Based on what you know but the creation face the execution phase about hoisting What do you think is
going to be locked here pause the video if you want to try this out yourself.
Otherwise I'm going to click Run.
Let's find out
original favorite food undefined new favorite food sushi.
Huh.
Is that what you expected.
I bet most of you thought the last fine in our function that is console logged new favorite food to
equal sushi would work but I bet this is surprising to some of you.
Why do we get undefined here and this goes back to what I said in the previous video that is hoisting
happens on every execution context.
Any time where you run a function a new execution context gets created and we have to go through the
creation face and execution phase again.
So let's see what happens here well the first line gets hoisted so favorite food at the top becomes
variable.
Favorite food equals undefined and remember the JavaScript engine isn't actually moving these lines
up.
I just want to explain what's happening.
But we assign favorite food to undefined favorite food.
Now gets assigned to undefined and I may have forgotten the variable keyword here so that gets hoisted.
And then we go to line four and line four we see a variable so fruit thoughts also gets hoisted so variable
food thoughts is going to equal undefined.
It's a variable
and we keep going keep going keep going there's no more Vera var there's no more function at the beginning
of the lines.
So there you go.
Our creation phase is done.
So now during the execution phase it's almost as if we don't need the variable keywords anymore because
they've been created during the creation phase.
So now we start executing the code.
The first execution that we do is favorite food equals two grapes.
All right.
And then we have food thoughts that gets assigned this entire piece of function.
We don't run this function.
It just says hey fruit thoughts is going to equal this function.
And then on line 14 we're going to run this function because the JavaScript engine is going to see these
two brackets.
Now as soon as we run this function a new execution context is created and inside of this execution
context hoisting happens during the creation phase.
So it's going to say I see variable here in this little world that we're in and there's favorite food
here.
So I'm going to hoist that up and by I I mean the JavaScript engine and it's going to hoist it up and
say favorite food equals to undefined
and that's it.
That's the only variable and function that it sees.
So now it's almost as if during the execution phase you're doing this your logging original favorite
food is favorite food which is undefined then favorite food becomes sushi where we log favorite food
now looking at this I hope you understand what's happening underneath the hood and we're going to talk
a little bit more about this idea of functions and scopes and what really happens here later on but
you might be asking yourself isn't hoisting confusing what happened to being predictable with our code
and making sure that the compiler as well as humans can understand our code because it's predictable
and there are arguments about whether you should even use hoisting and whether hoisting is bad practice
because we want to make code predictable remember and personally doing things like this makes your code
very unpredictable and I recommend avoiding hoisting if you can and you can do that well by not using
the VAR keyword.
So if we go back to our code the way it was before like this we can just simply use
cost and let that came with iOS 5 or E6 something we're going to talk about a little bit later on and
that's going to give us an error because right now we're trying to take advantage of hoisting and while
favorite food is not defined because it's defined here and we catch that error ahead of time because
now as a developer you're gonna see.
All right.
This doesn't make sense because we're no longer using hoisting this console log at the beginning.
Well this is not going to work.
So maybe we need to rewrite our code to have it make more sense instead of just relying on hoisting.
But it is a pretty important concept in JavaScript.
You're going to see it used all over the place but I hope this is now a little bit easier for you to
explain to others and work with yourself.
I'll see you in the next video by.